#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Pseudo Random Number Generators
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
In this document we look over several pseudo random number generators (prng).
 These prng's are import in several cyrptographic algorithms including stream
 ciphers, counter mode encryption, and in nonce value production.
 We will start with simpliest and first developed prng's and move to more
 complicated ones.
 This document assumes a familiarity with modular arithmetic, geometric
 sequence and series, basic cryptographic concepts, and the Euclidean algorithm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Linear Congruent Generator (LCG)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Definition
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\begin_inset Formula $a,c,m,x_{0}$
\end_inset

 are predefined inputs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
All arithemtic is done over the positive integers modulo 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The recurrence relation defining the number generation is given by 
\begin_inset Formula $x_{i}=(ax_{i-1}+c)$
\end_inset

 mod 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The maximum period length is 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

.
 Since there are only 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 possible inputs and the output of the generator only depends on the previous
 value, once the generator has outputted all 
\begin_inset Formula $m$
\end_inset

 values, when it hits a value its already outputted it will repeat.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Properties
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So how do we set these values, 
\begin_inset Formula $a,c,m,x_{0}$
\end_inset

, such that we get a suffiecntly 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

random
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 output? Some choices of these parameters yield these than largest possible
 period so how do we garentee a full period? Answering these questions yield
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
How to Break LCG
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
